<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for HTML5 for Mac OS X version 5.4.0" />
  <title>NeHe-EPUB-Preface</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/styles.css" />
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
  <div class="body">
    <h1>Preface</h1>
    <h2>Goal of this Book</h2>
    <p>This little EPUB is being written to demonstrate several of the ways that animated
    SVG can be used for illustrating educational and related ideas. It is not intended as
    a tutorial on SVG itself nor is it an exhaustive examination of all the ways that one
    might use SVG animation. Still it covers three basic methods for animating SVG: SMIL,
    JavaScript and CSS3. A such, it is hoped that it may be useful and interesting to
    some.</p>
    <p>It is worth noting that there are other ways to animate SVG. One example is
    three.js. Three.js allows one to import SVG paths and use them to construct 3D
    objects which can then be extruded, animated, textured, etc. This pattern is also
    possible with other frameworks. The point being that SVG as an open "graphics
    description" format can be used to define a graphical construct which can then be
    animated using whatever framework is loading it. That said, the three methods
    mentioned above are the current methods for animating SVG within the context of its
    normal context, i.e. a SVG or HTML document per se.</p>
    <p>It is worth noting that the use of <strong><em>SMIL animation</em></strong> in an
    EPUB such as this is, strictly speaking, disallowed by the EPUB spec. The EPUB
    Working Group (of which the author is a long-time member) decided in the early days
    of EPUB (circa 2.x) that SVG animation, though fully supported by both Adobe's SVG
    Viewer and Sun's Batik viewer, should not be allowed in EPUB documents. Somewhat
    ironically, none of us in the WG can clearly recall <em><strong>why</strong></em> we
    decided that SMIL animation should be excluded. In those long ago days, processors in
    eBook devices were slow, batteries weak and many displays were eInk with its slow
    refresh rate. These were probably the primary arguments to not allow SMIL animation.
    Finally, it has to be acknowledged that implementing SMIL animation in SVG was quite
    difficult, which may have also played a role as the WG was trying to encourage
    implementation of the standard.</p>
    <h2>About the Author</h2>
    <p>The author of this EPUB, Ric Wright, is the Director of Engineering for the
    <a href="http://readium.org/">Readium</a> project, which is an open-source foundation
    dedicated to providing web apps and a SDK for rendering <a href=
    "http://idpf.org/epub/301">EPUB</a>, the standard format for eBooks. Prior to running
    Readium, Ric was with Adobe Systems for many years, where he was a key member of the
    original SVG Viewer group and was also responsible for most of the libraries for
    import/export of SVG from Adobe's tools include Illustrator, InDesign and LiveMotion.
    After Adobe killed the SVG Viewer (because management was in love with Flash - he who
    laughs last and all that), Ric founded and led the eBook group at Adobe until his
    departure in 2012. More details of Ric's background can be found on his website at
    <a href="http://www.geofx.com" title="Geo-F/X website" target=
    "_blank">Geo-F/X</a>.</p>
    <p>The details of how this book was created are covered in the <a href=
    "colophon.xhtml" title="Colophon" target="_self">Colophon</a> at the end of the
    book.</p>
    <p>If you have any feedback, suggestions or bug reports about this book, you are
    strongly encouraged to contact <a href="mailto:rkwright@readium.org">Ric</a>
    directly.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
